New pages: HTMLInputElement checkedness (#35880)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmlinputelement/defaultchecked/index.md

---
title: "HTMLInputElement: defaultChecked property"
short-title: defaultChecked
slug: Web/API/HTMLInputElement/defaultChecked
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLInputElement.defaultChecked
---

{{ APIRef("HTML DOM") }}

> The **`defaultChecked`** property of the {{DOMxRef("HTMLInputElement")}} interface specifies the default checkedness state of the element. This property represents the {{htmlelement("input")}} element's default[`checked`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#checked) state as originally specified in HTML that created this object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`defaultChecked`** property of the {{DOMxRef("HTMLInputElement")}} interface specifies the default checkedness state of the element. This property reflects the {{htmlelement("input")}} element's [`checked`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#checked) attribute.
```

(Perhaps you could further clarify that the `checked` attribute in fact only sets the default state.)

> The boolean `checked` attribute is valid for the `radio` ([`<input type="radio">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/radio)) and `checkbox` ([`<input type="checkbox">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox)) input types.

Author: ```suggestion
The boolean [`checked`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#checked) attribute is valid for the `radio` ([`<input type="radio">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/radio)) and `checkbox` ([`<input type="checkbox">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox)) input types. The presence of the attribute sets the `defaultChecked` property to `true`.
```

> The boolean `checked` attribute is valid for the `radio`([`<input type="radio">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/radio)) and `checkbox` ([`<input type="checkbox">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox)) input types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The boolean `checked` attribute is valid for the `radio` ([`<input type="radio">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/radio)) and `checkbox` ([`<input type="checkbox">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox)) input types.
```
